you
[Music]
hello you're watching how they changed
duty and the Beast has received the
Disney fairy tale treatment both in
animated and live-action form but I mean
all the oscar-winning songs talking
candle stakes and Bell pride you may
have missed the television series from
the 80s
on the surface it was a daring
interpretation of a classic story
starring Ron Perlman and Linda Hamilton
but dig a little deeper and it's a
pretty weird take on the classic tale
sure there was a guy decked out in
makeup to look like a beast who had a
close relationship with a beautiful
woman but that was about all the show
offered to connect it to the original
Beauty and the Beast
which was actually based on a real
couple it was more of a fantasy fueled
law and order than if a retail still the
show aired for three seasons before
getting cancelled in 1990 and TV didn't
give up on the concept a reboot of
Beauty and the Beast starring Kristin
Kreuk and Jay Ryan aired from 2012 to
2016 although the series was a cult
classic and became one of the TV shows
Perlman is most known for Beauty and the
Beast doesn't usually pop up on the list
of the best primetime shows from the
eighties looking back the entire series
was pretty horrifying and no one sings
Beauty and the Beast met in Central Park
after mugging in the classic fairy tale
and Disney movies well and the best meet
when she ends up at his castle in an
attempt to help save her father none of
that happens in the television series
which took the original premise and
changed it completely in part because
the setting is present-day New York City
rather than acquaint you inhabit the two
characters meet when attorney Catherine
Chandler the beauty is set upon in a
wild case of mistaken identity
Catherine's attackers abandoned her in
Central Park where Winn send a savage
but sensitive based finds and rescues
her
does he take her to hospital call the
police
no he whisks her away to estrange on the
ground Ward notices her back to health
and keeps her their home Bix before all
is in her back to the wilds of Manhattan
thus begins their whirlwind romance
underneath New York City their immense
develops in a bizarre underground
community after Winston Trask his
Kathryn and turns to her he briefs her
to see father Roy dotrice the patriarch
of an underground community called the
world below father is Winston's adoptive
dad but more than that he's a physician
who entered into subterranean living
after being blacklisted in the world
above father has left the surface world
and finds a growing community of
outcasts living beneath New York this
establishes the setting for the series
two worlds living side by side well on
top of one another with Danny's ends
from each fallen in love with one
another its beauty and the beast' meets
the Morlocks Vincent is more half-man
half-lion than beast in the Disney
cartoon the best was made to look like a
mirror of different animals with the
head of a buffalo the torso over there
the brow of a gorilla the teeth and jaws
of a lion the legs and tail of a wolf
and the tasks of a wild war Disney
managed to make a monstrous yet emotive
and endearing character but a television
version of this would have four strong
Pullman into makeup chair four days to
get such a beastly effect plus the TV
show predated the Disney movie by four
years instead the show's creators based
his character on a lion which made for a
half-man half-lion appearance the makeup
was exceptionally well done and helped
to differentiate Vincent from the other
characters but it was more cat-like than
terrifying George Martin served as a
writer and producer on the series George
Martin is probably best known as the
author of the
Song of Ice and Fire series of books
upon which game of thrones' based but
back in the 80s Martin worked as a
writer on Beauty and the Beast and
eventually moved up to become a
supervising producer
Martin who walked on the series during
its entire run has set his proud of his
contributions and thought it was a great
show but because of his penchant for
including intimacy and aggression in his
work Martin ran into trouble with CBS
Martin discussed his time writing on the
series in a 2014 interview with Rolling
Stone there were constant limitations it
wore me down there were battles over
censorship how sensual things could be
whether a scene was too politically
charged how harsh things could be don't
want to disturb anyone we got into that
fight on Beauty and the Beast the Beast
slayed people that was the point of the
character it was a beast but CBS didn't
want blood all for the best to hurt
people they wanted us to show him
picking up someone and throwing them
across the room and then they would get
up and ran away I'm a god horrible
monster it was ludicrous the character
had to remain likable Ron Perlman got
the job because of his ability to weigh
makeup Ron Perlman didn't earn the role
of Vincent on his acting chops alone
legendary makeup artist Rick Baker who
has won seven Oscars for makeup and
films including an American Werewolf in
London ed wood and the Wolfman was
instrumental in getting Perlman the gig
Baker designed the look for the best and
recommended Perlman for the road based
on his work in 1981 quest for fire in
which they act her plate and neanderthal
Perlman was also noted for his work in
1986 the name of the roads in which he
played a hunchback monk bacon knew the
part of Vincent required the patience of
someone who could not only sit in the
makeup chair for hours each day but also
act while wearing that makeup
the series had a fantasy meets crime
procedural vibe to sustain the serious
beyond beauty me it's based underground
romance the series needed something more
and Catherine's day job provided plenty
of plot material when we first meet
Catherine she's an attorney who works
for her father at a large successful law
firm after the incident that takes her
into the world below she lives the firm
and joins the District Attorney's Office
as a prosecutor and assistant district
attorney
Catherine spends much of her time in the
world above seeking answers to her
situation while also protecting the
people of the world below the series
played out through the seasons as a
romance crime drama Catherine often
finds herself in peril but relies on
Vincent to show up and save her like a
sort of garden angel Vincent and
Catherine are connected telepathically
Vincent and Catherine dangers have
standard romantic chemistry they share a
psychic link Vincent can telepathically
sense when Catherine is in jeopardy
leaving his lair to always show up at
just the right time to move anyone who
threatens her the connection between the
two isn't solely limited to Catherine
sending signals to Vincent the bond
between them is even more powerful in
the episode a distant Shore when Vincent
hauls Catherine telepathically that an
offense is imminent Linda Hamilton left
in season three live in beast without a
beauty when the second season wrapped
with a cliffhanger that left fans
reeling for more the future of the show
was somewhat in doubt a vocal group of
viewers loved it but one person was
ready to walk away Linda Hamilton
she was pregnant when the second season
wrapped and wanted to leave so she could
spend time with her baby in work on
other projects the writers had to find a
way to write Catherine off the show they
resolved the previous cliffhanger by
allowing Catherine to rescue Vincent but
she's been captured and slain by someone
she's investigating a show about Beauty
and the bay
doesn't work as well when Butte is no
longer round the loss of Catherine was a
blow to the series and ultimately set it
on a course toward cancellation Beauty
and the Beast have a baby before
Catherine's untimely passing she and
Vincent consummate their relationship
and she has a baby the baby born without
a tail or whiskers serves as a key plot
device in the third season and continues
to tie Vincent to Catherine Vincent
spends most of his time in season three
trying to find the baby who's taken by
those responsible for slaying Catherine
at one point unfortunately the plot
didn't do much to keep the show
interesting and without Catherine this
series faltered and was canceled by the
end of the third season and that's all
for now
don't forget to leave a like subscribe
and share this video with fans take care
[Music]